[THEME MUSIC]
>> All around the world,
archaeologists have discovered
that ancient monuments that have
stood the test of time align
with the sun.
The great temple complex
of Karnak in Egypt
appears to be oriented to
the direction of the summer
solstice.
The famous Machu
Picchu site in Peru
was associated with an Inca
cult that worshipped the sun,
and in Europe, the
stones of Stonehenge
show and alignment
to the appearance
of the sun during the
summer and winter solstice.
This worldly worship of
the sun was important
to the ancient people, but why?
What significance
did our current sun
play in the lives
of the ancients,
and how can their
documentation of a sun god
lead to a better understanding
of the universe we
live in today?
In 2008, NASA launched its
Interstellar Boundary Explorer
or IBEX.
This satellite uses
energetic neutral atoms
to image the interaction
region between the solar system
and Interstellar space.
Shortly after its launch, it
detected something scientists
had never seen
before, a thin slice
or ribbon of energy
and particles
were discovered in
the heliosphere.
This new finding overturned
40 years of theory
and provided insight into
the fundamental structure
of the heliosphere.
According to NASA, this will
help scientists understand
structures that surround our
solar system and other star
systems throughout the galaxy.
According to Wallace
Thornhill, this
is proof of the electric
universe theory.
>> The sun gets its power like
all of the rest of the stars
in the galaxy, from the
electric currents flowing along
the spiral arms and
into the center.
It's part of Alfven's
circuit, and as such, it
collects electrical
energy from one
of these Birkeland
current filaments, which
must surround the solar system.
The evidence for this
has been found recently
with the IBEX
mission, which found
there's a ring of
bright spots out well
beyond the heliosphere.
So our connection to the
galaxy has been discovered,
but it's not understood.
There is a lot of surprises
as a result of that,
and I spoke to
the fellow who was
in charge of the
experiment, and he
said that when it
was discovered,
there were a lot of theories
about what would be found
and there were predictions.
None of the predictions
proved to be correct,
and they gave up
predicting at some point
as the results came back in.
The puzzle is that there
are these bright spots
in a ring around
the solar system,
and this is where the
sun's circuit, Remember
the solar wind is
a current shape
and it flows outwards
in all directions.
Where it hits the filaments
going past the sun
is like searchlight
beams through a cloud.
Where they hit the
cloud, they light up.
And so this is what
they've discovered,
and they were amazed because
these bright spots move
and change with time.
This is totally inexplicable
in any standard thinking
and remains a mystery.
But it is a part
of the signature
of the electrical connection
of the sun to the galaxy.
>> Prior to the IBEX mission,
most scientists believed that
the global boundaries of our
solar system were controlled
mainly by the motion of our
solar system through the galaxy
and the solar wind, which
is an extremely fast flow
of electrically charged matter
that flows out of the sun.
The IBEX maps revealed the
galactic magnetic field is also
a critical part of the sun's
interaction with the galaxy.
>> The spacecraft was organized
to scan the sky and find out
where they were coming
from and their energies.
So it was a big surprise
when this ring, which
was aligned with the
interstellar external magnetic
field, and remember,
electric currents
follow the magnetic field.
So what the IBEX mission
and the Cassini spacecraft
were detecting were returns
from their hydrogen atom
nuclei, the protons,
picking up electrons
from the current that were
surrounding the solar system,
and then circling around in
the magnetic field and some
of them returning back
into the solar system
so the spacecraft
could detect them.
This was confirmation of
the electrical circuit
of the star, something that
Hannes Alfven decades earlier
had shown was necessary to
explain the solar wind itself.
The electrical
model of stars has
a picture of how
the circuit works,
and every charged
object in plasma
surrounds itself
with a cell wall.
This is almost biological
in its overtones.
That cell wall is what's
known as a plasma double layer
or a plasma sheath, and they
were identified by the Nobel
Prize winning Irving Langmuir
in the early 20th century.
The plasma sheath
is a place where
most of the electric
field is to be found.
It's only strong within
the so-called double layers
or plasma sheaths.
So I predicted that when the
Voyager spacecraft reached
the boundary of
the solar system,
the effects would not be there,
but just a plain bough wave
effect trying to play out
through the interstellar
medium, and this was borne out.
To begin with the solar wind
seemed to slow to a halt
and that's because there's
a reverse field very
close to the boundary.
And then once passing
through that area,
there is a voltage drop, which
is associated with cosmic rays.
All of these things were
fulfilled by Voyager 1,
and Voyager 2, as of
this date, is currently
experiencing that same boundary
in a different direction
from the sun.
So all of these
things were supportive
of the electric universe,
but none of them
were as powerful
as the discovery
of this strange ring
around the solar system
by the IBEX mission.
>> How does this discovery
explain how the sun interacts
with the rest of the universe?
The electric universe
theory explains this
by going back to
the birth of a star.
>> In the electric universe,
galaxies are an electromagnetic
phenomenon, not a
gravitational phenomenon.
And this is why astronomers
have so much difficulty
and have to invent dark matter
and so on to try and patch up
Newton's law of gravity.
Once you accept electrical
activity and electric circuits
in space, as suggested
strongly by Hannes Alfven,
you realize that we have an
entirely different mechanism
for forming stars.
We're not talking
about gravity anymore.
We're talking about
electric currents.
And electric currents
in space, take
a form known as a
Birkeland current, which
is twin filaments.
In deep space, the amount
of matter per cubic meter,
in other words, the density
of material, is extremely low.
It's counted in sort of
atoms per cubic meter.
It's the best vacuum
that we know of,
so an electric current
flowing in deep space
in between galaxies
or between stars
can only carry very
little current,
but the sheer size of
these current filaments
can be light years across.
When they're that
size, they don't
radiate any visible
light, but they
do give off radio
signals, which are
detected by radio telescopes.
When these filaments arrive
at a cloud of denser material,
known as a molecular
cloud, in a galaxy,
the effect is to
cause the current,
because it can now flow
through a smaller aperture,
if you like, it constricts in.
It's called an
electromagnetic pinch effect.
As it comes in more
and more narrowly,
if there's sufficient
material, the current density
gets to the point
where atoms begin
to give off light and the
problem for many years
that dogged astronomers
was that they couldn't
see inside these clouds.
Visible light can't get through
all of the dust and material.
With the advent of infrared
space telescopes, which
could see through the
clouds, astronomers
were amazed to find
these glowing filaments.
They are the signatures of
these galactic current circuits.
Now, the pinch
effect is one which
allows the electric current
to draw inwards surrounding
material, and it does it far
more effectively than gravity.
And because it is doing along
a line and not from a point,
gravity always operates
in a point source of mass,
it collects material very well.
It's an extremely good kind of
vacuum cleaner, if you like,
in space, and all
the material needed
to make stars and planets
are drawn together
along this filament.
Our sun was formed along
one of these filaments.
And as it turns out because
they're twin filaments,
it's usually a pair of
stars at the same time,
and the two of them are
rotating around one another.
Some stars, any other
object, or any other filament
that's nearby, will not form
a partner with these two.
It'll be independent,
and you get
single stars formed along them.
Now the sun may be one
of these single stars
because it's known by
astronomers that binary stars
are present in
remarkable numbers,
and it's always been a
puzzle why is this so?
Why are stars found in so many
pairs instead of single stars?
Once the stars are formed, they
become quite heavy, of course,
after this formation
period, and the filaments,
just like in a
novelty plasma ball,
are moving, waving,
snaking about.
And at some point, the
stars are left behind
and the filament moves on.
So then you have all
these bodies in a line,
but they all have
their own motions,
which can be either around each
other, or it's a little random.
In the laboratory, it
was described to me
by a top plasma physicist.
The effect is like they
scatter like buckshot.
So after the event,
stars are scattered
in all directions away
from the central axis,
and planets are formed
at the same time,
so all of the heavy elements
that form planets are put
in place by the same mechanism.
And they form
partnerships, because
the electrogravitic
model of interaction
between celestial bodies
shows that gravity
is long range repulsive
and short range attractive.
Stars being an
electrical phenomenon,
they continue to shine because
the electric current flowing
through these clouds
is everywhere.
There are minor filaments
alongside major ones,
so the stars then shine
according to their environment.
In the case of the
sun, it doesn't
seem to have needed to do
anything dramatic to continue
to survive after its birth.
>> How are we connected to
the same force as the sun?
>> The Birkeland currents
transfer electrical energy
to the planets, because we're
all part of the same circuit
of the sun.
The other form of energy is
electromagnetic, which is slow
and its a wave, like a
wave in the end of a rope.
When you do that, it
takes time for the energy
to get to the other end,
and you detect the fact
that the other person
is waving it at you.
But if the rope is taut,
which is the electric force,
you give a tug on this, and
the person on the other hand
feels it immediately.
That's the difference,
and the universe
is connected by
this direct force.
It's like we're all connected
by invisible strings.
This is the answer to the
puzzle of quantum entanglement.
How can you separate
two particles
by hundreds of kilometers, and
you flip one and the other one
instantly knows to flip?
The system has to be in balance.
When you change
scale in physics,
you've got to identify
what is the force that's
dominating at this scale.
For instance, I said
galaxies are electromagnetic,
and when you get down to
the solar system scale,
this is gravity.
When you get down to the
atomic and subatomic,
it's the electric force,
which is dominant.
So when you talk about
biological molecules,
they're a structure, and the way
they signal throughout the body
is the direct electric force.
It's not even electromagnetism.
Magnetism isn't involved.
It's the direct connection, the
connectedness of all things.
So living systems act
as a coherent organism.
Every part of the body
knows instantly what
the rest of the body is
doing, and this is essential.
Otherwise, it just
wouldn't work.
There are trillions
of things going
on inside the body
at any instant,
and if you had to rely
on slow nerve signals
and just at the speed of
light, it would be incoherent.
And this is why the
electric universe,
one of the most important
features of it, is resonances.
Because when you've got
these direct connections,
you can create
resonance systems which
are in harmony and stable.
Stability is the key.
>> Stability of the sun has
been a topic for researchers
for many years.
Could modern day scientists
be observing a connection
between the Earth and the sun?
And how does that
behavior of the sun
affect the Earth in the
electrical universe theory?
>> The point of Kristian
Birkeland was looking at trying
to understand the phenomena
observed on the sun,
the sunspot cycle and so on, and
he did this by producing these
little electrical device called
the terrella, the little earth,
inside a vacuum chamber, where
you apply electrical power
and you produce the aurora, and
in effect the sunspot cycle,
because you can make the
discharges move up and down
in latitude by
varying the voltage.
So if you apply this
model to the sun,
one of the things that happens
is around the magnetized body,
a current flows in a
circle around the body,
and energy is stored in that
doughnut of electric current.
The energy stored
can reach a point
where it discharges to the main
body that forms the sunspots.
Now the same kind of
thing can occur in the sun
as it does with the
Earth and so on,
and that is that you can get
discharges from the surrounding
ionosphere or any charged layers
outside the Earth's atmosphere.
In the case of the sun,
because the energy levels
are fairly high,
those discharges
take the form of coronal mass
ejections and solar flares.
When that happens,
this is a case
where a star is ejecting
matter to achieve equilibrium.
So the charged matter
is shot into space.
When it encounters
the Earth, it disturbs
the Earth's electrical
environment and the earth
responds by changing the
rotation of the Earth
suddenly by creating auroras at
different levels of latitude.
Once again, this is
what Birkeland showed,
and also having effects
like triggering earthquakes,
because earthquakes, I
think, in my opinion,
and based on all the evidence
associated with changes
in the charge in the
ionosphere, and this is already
being measured and
noted, but it's always
thought that the earthquake is
causing the ionosphere changes.
I would suggest
it's the reverse.
That it's the sudden change in
charge in the ionosphere, which
is inducing electric
currents to flow
beneath the surface
of the Earth.
>> If this is true, could the
sun's electrical interference
also affect the Earth
in a different way?
>> The phenomena known as ley
lines could also be looked
at electrically, and we know
that the currents flowing
in the ionosphere of the Earth
induce electric currents below
the surface of the Earth.
And it's possible that the
so-called ley lines, pathways,
favor the passage of electric
current in the subsurface.
There may be more
to it than that,
because in the
electric universe,
there is more subtle
activities engendered
by the electric force, which is
involved in biological systems
and things which are regarded
at present as taboo science.
The effects can be related
to even psychological effects
on humans and that
kind of thing.
We are all part of a
system, and that system
has a system of
resonant signaling
between all of the components.
So we are intimately
connected and some people
seem to be more sensitive
to that than others.
>> If we are all connected, how
does an electrical signal from
the universe affect all
the systems on one planet?
>> The term subtle energy is
used a lot by natural healers
and natural therapies.
The electric universe helps
provide an understanding
of that concept,
because in effect,
any physical object,
a molecule or an atom,
is a resonant system.
So each is singing at
different frequencies
all at the same time, but it's
not an electromagnetic signal.
It is a direct signal,
which cannot be shielded.
Just like gravity.
Remember, I said gravity
is this direct signaling,
and that means that
throughout the whole body,
all of the molecules of
the same construction
are in tune with one another.
And like a set of
tuning forks, which
attune to the same frequency.
If you bring one
along and put it
on the board, which
is ringing, the others
will all lock in
phase eventually.
It's the same with these
biological systems.
So this is a means
of communication
that is not recognized
by physicists,
and therefore, it's not
passed on to biologists.
And it is a system
which is ignored
by modern biology, which
is a shame because that is
the underlying feature of life.
Presently, biology cannot
explain the difference between
an animate and inanimate object.
That is the difference.
However, even inanimate objects,
crystals and so on signal
each other because they will
resonate at the same frequency.
And as I said, it
cannot be shielded.
So you can go even
further with this,
and there had been ESP and
remote viewing experiments,
and they have been tested
inside a Faraday cage,
which should remove all
electromagnetic signals,
and it still works, and the
reason is that the signal
cannot be shielded.
And that goes even
deeper into the Earth
because they are now
discovering life at kilometers
deep in the rocks, and the
question is how on Earth
could life be started
under those conditions?
The electric universe
says that the information
to generate the living
organism is already available.
It didn't have to be
created from scratch
in a sort of primordial soup.
The information is out there
because the universe is
of unknown age and extent,
and it's obviously learnt how
to produce life under any given
conditions that are possible.
So when conditions
changed on the earth,
we had an outbreak of
new animals, ones that
had never been seen before.
Somewhere in the universe,
there is an environment
where those same kinds
of creatures existed.
The information is
already out there.
The universe and nature don't
waste anything, including
information, and the
biologist Rupert Sheldrake
has already introduced
this idea and has
had it accepted
to a large degree,
and even tested
experimentally, and that
is that embryo
genesis is controlled
from signals outside the cell.
>> Signals from
outside the cell?
Is it possible the
ancient people understood
this new powerful sun and
how it influenced all living
systems on the planet?
>> According to our findings,
the sun god of ancient religion
was a conjunction of planets,
and so the images will show
three planetary
bodies in conjunction.
So you have a larger planet,
planet Saturn, the planet Venus
located in the middle, and
then in the middle of Venus,
you have the planet Mars.
So at one level, it looks
like one giant orb in the sky,
but as that configuration
evolves through time,
the ancients became
aware that those
were three separate bodies.
Because of course, Mars
travels up and down the axis
and comes closer to the Earth
and moves away from Venus.
So it becomes obvious that Venus
is a separate planetary body.
The sun is clearly
there because it's
reflecting light
off of those bodies
that we see in the sky,
the three bodies I was just
talking about.
And so at a particular
point in the history
of the polar
configuration, a crescent
appears on those bodies and
appears to rotate around
the sky, and so that
is clearly a reflection
of our current sun.
So the ancients literally
they were in this bubble
of let's call it plasma.
We were in this bubble, so our
vision was directed northwards,
and we saw those three planets
on a string essentially,
but at some points
in time, they were
illuminated by a sun out here
somewhere that cast a crescent.
So earthlings could
see a crescent rotating
around the sky.
>> When this sun moved in, the
people must have felt a shift.
Wall explains that ancient
remnants of these cultures
showed that when the
new sun moved in,
it changed the magnetic
field of the Earth.
>> Saturn is an
anomaly, for instance,
that they cannot explain
its magnetic field.
Well, I don't think there is
a good explanation anyway.
However, when two electrically
different bodies approach
one another, and there's an
exchange of electrical charge,
those currents that
flow are enormous
and they will cause the
magnetic field at the time
to vary in ways which don't
match any current theory.
But they will be
recorded by the rocks,
and the rocks have to
be heated at the time
and be cooling when that
magnetic field is different
in order to maintain a
record of the reversed field.
In the case of pottery, it had
to be being fired in the kiln
and cooling through its
magic temperature, where
it traps the magnetic
field at the. time.
And there is pottery
from the Middle East,
which shows a reversed field.
In Australia, I know that at the
time of the Aboriginal peoples,
there was a camp site where the
material there was investigated
and found that there
was a magnetic reversal
within their existence
in Australia.
This indicates that
some of the times when
we were being
electrically interfered
with by some other nearby body,
it also adds weight to the fact
that, well, the the solar
system and the earth
have a recent history
of encounters.
>> If the ancient people felt
a shift on the planet from
the sun's energy, could they
have understood how everything
is connected?
Would this
understanding have been
a new way of using
energy in a way
that they could manipulate it?
There are lots of theories that
suggest ancient cultures were
able to lift stones with sound
or the use of electricity
was a part of their life.
What influences could the sun
have had on ancient cultures?
One thing is for
certain, they wanted
to track its course
in the sky, but why?
Wall points out that by
us understanding the sun
like the ancients did, we
might be able to influence
our life on Earth today.
>> By understanding the sun as
an electrical phenomenon opens
up the question of
nuclear reactions.
If they're taking
place on the sun,
what are they, and
are they of use
in producing power on Earth?
Of course, the mantra we
hear when billions of dollars
are spent on fusion research
to produce power like the sun,
it assumes that the standard
model of the sun is correct
and the electric
universe says it is not.
So if we can find
out what is going on
in this electrical environment
on the surface of the sun,
when I say the surface,
the visible surface,
the photosphere, there
is an opportunity
to understand how
the sun really works
and how it really
produces energy apart
from just the electrical input.
There is a lot of research
being done right now
on nuclear transmutation.
That's not nuclear fusion.
That is the production of
heavier elements and isotopes
by low energy means, which
produces excess energy,
but without all of
the radioactive waste
and other problems
that are associated
with the standard
nuclear power systems.
So the electric
universe opens up
all kinds of possibilities
for the future.
It asks different questions.
It gives different answers.
And for technologists,
this is a goldmine
because this opens
up ways and means
of doing things that were
not considered in the past.
>> If we are able to understand
how the sun functions,
could we transcend those
concepts to how we use power
on Earth, both
subtle and direct?
Electric universe theory
weaves gather evidence
of a force that connects all.
Yet it also suggests
that the symbols that
are ingrained in
our minds are also
a reaction to an electric
encounter our ancients
witnessed in the sky.
If this is all true, how
does cosmology and mythology
reveal a human pattern on
this planet that can only be
broken by means of knowledge?
And could this
knowledge release us
from our fear of destruction?
Serpents, dragons, Saturn
cults, and the Resurrection
of the universe, next.